What do you say, boy? D'you want to be a Bat-Hound? Yesh you do, yesh you do. 
You want to kill Gotham?!  For being weak!  For being afraid!  For failing again and again and again! I am Gotham.  Kill me. 
So that's what it is. The ears. The belt. The gargoyle. It's not funny. It's the choice of a boy. The choice to die. I am Batman. I am suicide. 
A woman who always ran toward people in trouble... people in need... with open hands and an open heart... 
You're one of the first Talons, Uriah! You're from before all of this! The skyscrapers! From when the city was brick and wood! Uriah Boone! 
Ms. Olsen, the stages of Gotham are better off for your provocative, textural dramatic scenarios. Your fearless probing of the human condition elevates the spirit of the common man, and the very consciousness of the rich and powerful. Thank you. 
I have to develop an entirely new way of being Batman. 
You're a fine bunch of detectives. Each and every one of you. 
Why do you have this? 
But that much power is a crutch. Ask him. It can make you lazy and arrogant. I've seen it. You let either one of those into your life... and you're dead. 
You need to understand... Jason's suffering. The Joker hurt him. But he healed wrong. He got more violent. You got stronger. 
My suggestion is you find a way to bring Kent back to life. The world needs all the heroes it can get. And if you don't mind. I'd like to get back to work. 
So yes, I know his name. But the Joker's name isn't what's important. It never has been. 
You've been standing here, staring out at a light in the sky. Because like it or not... this is a Batman story after all. 
He's probably just delusional, but... he wouldn't be the first person to crawl his way up through time. 
My emotional attachment to the manor is a weakness. The inmates are secure. Gotham is quiet. This is the best outcome from a list of terrible options. 
The Matches Malone persona is invaluable for studying the gangs of Gotham. A mask to study the inmates of Arkham was long overdue. 
I've clearly underestimates the killer on the loose in the Manor's walls. 
I'll show the Arkham patients that their safety is important too. Now they know that I'll risk my life for them too. Men like this will never be tolerated. Especially... not in my house. 
You people used to artack me for living alone in my father's home, but now that the manor is in service to the city, I'm criticized for being an embarrassed millionaire. 
This is personal for you. And when it's personal, judgment gets clouded. I should know. That's why I'm here. 
Hell of a woman, Lois Lane. Can't understand why this Superman hasn't made a move. 
I know a little something about this kind of thing, Clark. You're not dealing with a rational person. There's... nothing here to make sense of. You've got yourself a Joker. 
This whole thing's a trap. The enemy's leading you on. Taunting you with your family. Charge in there and he's just going to kill them before your eyes. 
Superman... banana muffin. 
You're superman, dammit! You do the impossible! 
But he's still Superman. That big, booming, patronizing voice. Thinks he knows it all. But he has no idea who I am now. Who we are. Heh. 
Superman and I have an ongoing debate about what would happen if we were to use the same tactics as our enemies. It always ends the same. I tell him my concerns and he smiles and says I worry too much. But the thing that always scared me was this: if heroes ever started to act like our enemies...we'd be better villains than they ever were. 
I need to stop thinking like me. Or even thinking like him. I need to ask myself...what would Superman do? 
Splinter has a resolve unlike any warrior I've seen before... and Bane has never had to contend with a family that inherited spirit. 
I can't stop him with my fists. We didn't come here just to pull you off the wrong path. We came here because we're up against the end of this city. We came because we need you, Donatello. We need a genius. 
You've come out of this stronger. All of you have. I hope you can see now the true strength inside of you. You only have yourself to thank for that, Donatello. 
Turtles... 
I didn't take you here to guilt you. I want you to understand. The worst thing imaginable happened right in front of my eyes when I was just a child, and all the rules of the world were broken. It took me decades to pull myself together into something new... something strong. A man who could overcome what had happened to him, but also a man who could work tirelessly to make sure that would never happen to another family. It is selfish, in a way. I'll grant you that. But it's what I can do. And I need to do something. I need to do it for them. 
You want to know...why I'd save the Joker?  I--I told you, Cranston.  You think our lives are more important than theirs.  That's how...I know I was right...I know I didn't learn from you...Because they all are.  They all are. 
To Alfred. 
It wasn't over nothing. I won't - I can't believe it was over nothing. 
This is useless. I can't fight them and protect them at the same time. Right now, the enemy is us. 
Wait. Have to fight this... have to fight the effects of the tea... fight through paranoia... hallucination... terror... and find... rage. 
Believe me, Titus, I'd prefer to rely on other people, and not have it boomerang back and find the chink in my armor. 
It's me. I'm behind you in the shadows. I'm going to speak now. 
Bruce Wayne means nothing to me. I'm Batman with or without him. 
Is he right about Gotham? Is it the city that brings out the beast in people, or is it always there... waiting for the right origin story to set it free? 
Edward! "When is it a good idea to take things that don't belong to you?" I put it in riddle form. Out of respect. 
I love dinosaurs. 
I've tried. I've turned a blind eye to Dick's mistakes, to his shortcomings... Convinced myself that he just needed time. That he would come around. But, there came a point where I have to admit that he's had more than enough chances. He's not the partner I'd hoped for. 
I want you to understand something. I know what they made you. I know how much it's hurt you. How much is still hurts you. But you are not what they made you to be. You are something more. You are what you choose to be. And you fought your way across the world so I would know what's she's about to do. So I can stop Mother once and for all. You aren't a monster, that's what they tried to make you. But it didn't work, You are a hero. Because that's the path you took yourself. 
This isn't a deal. You work for me, now. 
How could a person do something like this? How could she build an empire of trauma. And why? 
What would Dick have become without me? Would he have wanted any of this? Or is it just my will, my mind, superseding his own? 
You claim to act out of love, but I don't think you even understand the meaning of the emotion! Love requires empathy. Sympathy. Compassion. There's nothing inside you but ice and hate. 
For this...and perhaps for the first time, Batman would be little more than a lifeless burden. 
He wants to take everything away from me... first Jim Gordon... now Alfred... 
What the hell is going on? 
All these monsters. Everyone I've faced in my career... I know them. I know how they think... I know how they work... But whoever this is, they're just running me through the gauntlet. They want me tired. They want me weak. The city is on fire, and it's all just a damn distraction. And I don't know for what... 
There are creatures that slip through the cracks of sense and reason... and draw strength from denial. You do not want to give them that strength. 
Your work is so inconsequential to their turf war, they'll destroy it all just to keep me off their trail. 
Leviathan? Leviathan? HERE'S! YOUR! LEVIATHAN! Your figurehead. Just another thug bawling for his mommy. 
Back off, muchachos. You're tangling with a master of karate. 
She wanted you to join me as Robin. She intends for you to replace me, and that can't happen. Because... if you become Batman... everything falls apart. 
I'm not your father, Talia! 
Damian Wayne, my son, struck our lives like a bolt of lightning. A brief, unforgettable thunderstroke. Now my son is gone in the blink of an eye. 
I wouldn't recommend going after them unless you're really itching for a fight. And I wouldn't recommend wearing that suit until you know what it means. Have a nice evening... "Catwoman." 
I don't understand it. She acted like we knew each other.  But... that's not possible. Why in the world would I know someone like her? 
No more games. You're anything but stupid. It's beyond that. All the thefts! The fights! The idiotic risks! It's all leading to one unavoidable end! Is that what you want?! Do you want to DIE?! 
Because Gotham isn't Batman. Gotham isn't the Owls. Gotham is... Gotham is all of us. 
Look, all of you, until this time, he's only come after you tangentially, to get to me. But now, he's saying he's coming for each of you head-on. And when Joker comes for you, he goes for everything you love, everything you care about, to destroy it. 
Your training isn't worth anything to me. There are people who've trained their entire lives and fallen in this war. Did you really think it was as easy as picking up a taser? What did you think? That I would see how much you've grown and take you back to my base? Tell you my real name? Give you a car and a cape and let you fight by my side? This isn't a game, Harper! If you pursue this, you will die, do you understand me?! 
Seems Clayface has mutated. What little is of Basil Karlo's DNA is disappearing fast. Meaning, Clayface is no longer an actor. No longer a mimic. If he samples a person's DNA, brushes their skin, finds a single hair, he can absorb it and fully become them. Which means, he's truly a clay man now. Everyone and no one. The only question is...who will he become next? 
Whoever it was that just tried to kill me, he was good. But he made one mistake. He tried to use Gotham's legends against me. But I'm the only legend this city needs. 
I was traveling, Alfred. Training. For this. And I can't tell you what it means to have you by my side here. But I'm not bringing Bruce Wayne back to life. 
Is that supposed to be a riddle? 
Yes, father. I shall become a bat. 
Hello. A lot of you don't know me. But my name ... my name is Bruce Wayne, and I'm here today to ask you something. Just one thing. And it's this ... what do you love about Gotham City? No, I mean it. You out there. Everyone looking at this broadcast. What do you love about this city? I mean, it's an awful place to live. Right? I mean, it's terrible. It's unaffordable. Dangerous and full of rain. It's a monster. So why? Why do you love it? The truth is, only you know why you stay here. Why you put up with this place. Or maybe you don't know. I didn't know why I came back until just a little while ago. 
You want to arrest me, arrest me. But I'll never trust you. You're crooked. Your men are crooked. And you can rot in that coat of yours. 
I know plenty about bats, Alfred. Tell me what you know about owls. 
Because what he can't see, what he'll never see, is that people notice smart when smart changes the world. When it adds something. But this man, all he cares about is himself. He isn't complicated. He's no riddle. He's just a boy, standing at the center of his village, screaming, "Look at me." Embarrassing himself in a cheap hat. 
In the city today, Alfred, now more than ever, evil men, sick men, they step from the shadows to kill and terrify, and Batman will draw their fire. He will be the lightning rod. He will show the people of Gotham not to be afraid. It's the thing, Alfred. It's what makes me happy. It's all that makes me happy. 
I can't fix this city in one night... but I can find one killer. 
All right. Let's talk about history. 
So yes, it's a bad plan. Anyone has a better one, I'm all ears. No? Then the bottom line is this: It's our city. All of ours. And we need to take it back from him, now, together, or it's over. For all of us. Forever. So tell me... who's in?! 
For Batman to live, Bruce Wayne always has to die! 
You think you can fool me? You think so? You can't. Because I know all the tricks. Hell, I invented them. And sooner or later... I will find you. Wherever you are... you can't hide from me. Hide in the dark. Because I live here... in the dark... in Gotham. It's my city. 
I know... that I am sick... to death... of OWLS! 
You asked me before, what the Court did to me. What they did was show me the truth. That the Gotham City I thought I knew, my city... doesn't exist. They showed me that the real Gotham, the Gotham out there, is a city of birds, a city of owls. It's a stranger and an enemy... it always has been. And I'll tell you, Dick, if someone could've protected me from that truth, I'd have been grateful. 
Get the hell out of my house. 
The bats had simply hidden deeper in the caves. In the darkest parts, the parts the owls couldn't tolerate. And when the bats came back... it was with a vengeance. 
Now let's break his damn back. 
So that's what it is. The ears. The belt. The gargoyle. It's not funny. It's the choice of a boy. The choice to die. I am Batman. I am suicide. 
The night, Alfred. The night. She stole the night. 
All of you are to leave Gotham today. Go on vacation without your masks. Or put your masks on and find other monsters to fight. I don't care what you do. As long as you don't do it here. Bane is stronger than you. He may be stronger than me. Five days. I need five days to save Gotham Girl. And I will save her. But I won't kill you to do it. 
You know how many times I've heard that?  "Rest in peace, Batman!"  "There's no escape, Batman!"  "Time to die, Batman!"  Every night.  Over, and over, and over.  For so many years.  "This is the end, Batman!"  Every.  Damn.  Night.  And yet...I'm still here. 
And so it came. Over the next months as I fought to hold the city together, Gotham divided. Then fell. Into slaughter. Misery. Torture. Mayhem. Havoc. Betrayal.  Devastation. Insanity. People think they understand me. Alfred, Gordon, the boys. All of Gotham, in its way. Even you. A man in pain, trying to save who he can. They think...but... they don't understand...anything. They don't know a thing about me. But you have to. Before. Before any of this. You have to know. What I did...what I had to do. During the War of Jokes and Riddles. 
It took a few more weeks before the city saw what it was.  Before people realized that these dead weren't the normal dead of Gotham.  That the bodies were coming too fast.  That the threat was not limited to one alley or one neighborhood.  That the monsters were choosing sides.  That anyone stuck between the monsters was just a thing to be put aside.  To be put down.  A few weeks.  Before they called it a war. 
What happened next, when it was just us...no one--no one but the insane know what happened next.  But I have to tell you.  You have to know, Cat.  Because, then, you'll know me.  Who I am.  And then you can decide.  If I'm worth your life, your love.  If you can forgive me.  If you can marry me. 
He lied.  That's what villains do, Ivy.  They lie.  And maybe, just maybe, you didn't understand this...not because you were weak or young...but because you're not a villain. 
We keep changing. Us. Over all these years. We're never the same. 
Fine.  Fine.  Do it, then.  Kill Gotham.  But this city--it's just brick and concrete.  It didn't free the Pirate.  Or hurt those soldiers.  And it damn well didn't murder your parents.  The Pirate was here because I couldn't stop the chaos that bleeds this city.  You hurt those soldiers because I told you to fly to them.  And your parents...they were murdered because I couldn't save them!  You want to kill Gotham?!  For being weak!  For being afraid!  For failing again and again and again!  I am Gotham.  Kill me. 
I've been on the very top. I've been as happy as a man can be. I've had the greatest joys. The greatest friends. I've had victories, and I've had... love. And then... something happens. You lose something or... someone or... and there it is again. I'm there again. Mother's tangled. Father's yelling. I'm ten and I'm on my damn knees. And I'm scared out of my damn mind. 
Alfred. I was... I'm lost. I need to remember who I am. 
I'm the World's Greatest Detective. I'll find out who hired you. And I will break them too. You can get your own damn help. 
Tell me. Tell me who you are. Say the words. Shout them proudly. "I am Bane." Say it. So I can tell you... I'm Batman. 
My name is Bruce Wayne. When I was ten years old, a man murdered my mother and my father in front of me. Before the police... when the sirens were... when I could only hear them. I... I held her--my mother's hand. It wasn't cold, but there was blood. On her hand. My father was a good man, but... I could never talk... he was very... formal. But I could always just talk to my mother. She was the only one. The only one. And now. Then. She was... there was blood on my hand. But I just started. I talked even with the blood. The sirens. I... talked. I talked to her. I had to. I... still have to. 
Evaluate. Reassess. A metaphor. A myth. A story. A dream. 
Two sets of eyes are better than one. We can tackle this case together. Like the old days. 
I want you to tell your master. Bane. Tell him, I wish, today, we could have... talked. But I just woke up, and I'm a little tired. So I'm going home. My home. In my city. But tomorrow... tomorrow, I'm coming back. With my army. And then you tell him, Harvey. Tell Bane. Tomorrow. We'll talk plenty. 
Cat, I'm not fine. Everything's not fine. My world is dust... without you. 
Gotham Girl. I'm sorry this happened to you. Psycho-Pirate infected you with fear. That monster at Blackgate transformed you into this creature. Red Robin. You. And your brother. You only wanted to help people. Help the city. I let it take Red Robin. Take your brother. I promise--It will not take you, too. 
It's never done. There is no progress. Another year, another year. Yesterday becomes today as quickly today becomes yesterday. You will never stop. And neither will I. 
Life is not a trap you make when you're ten and you're hurting. Life is a choice you make every day. Every damn day. I choose her. I choose happiness. I choose family. And I choose Batman. 
You have a design for Gotham City, Master Bruce. Isn't it time the world saw it? 
I've been thinking lately.  About you and me.  How you may be the only one who understands what I'm doing.  Bane.  He has something...something I want.  Something I will take from him.  To do it, I'll break the laws I need to break.  I'll use the people I need to use.  I will do whatever needs to be done.  And I will never stop. 
If the Designer still has your plans... I'm about to lose everything. 
I've spent my career using my wealth and power to fight costumed madmen. And they keep coming back, over and over! I keep needing to make bigger and more frightening weapons just to keep you people down! You know who I am. You know how it started... in an alley with  a mugger and a gun... and I changed to stop that... and the muggers changed too... You always come back with a bigger gun. 
I'm going to heal from this... I'm going to fight back. If you forgive me...we'll face what comes next... together. Wait for me, Selina. I'll be with you soon. 
I don't know that this battle will ever end. 
If Damian's next surprise is anywhere near as personal as the first, I might want to be alone. Wouldn't want you to see the dark harbinger of justice burst into tears. 
I'm tired of marking the night I watched my father bleed out from his sucking chest wound and my mother from a hole in her throat. It's not how they died that should be remembered, it's how they lived. That's why, from here on out, I'll be honoring their wedding anniversary and not their The Final Night on this planet. 
As Robins you've all had your strengths and weaknesses just as I had my own steep learning curve before putting on the cowl. 
If it's fear you want to spread -- let me share some with you! 
We had an understanding you'd keep your time on the streets limited while that bounty's in effect -- a need-to-go basis only. 
So, if you think I'm going to stand here and apologize for worrying about my son's well-being and the choices I see you making, you're wrong. 
I need your help, Frankenstein. To resurrect my son. 
Don't think I didn't notice the restraint you just showed, Robin. Refusing to pound these fellows with the excessive force you wanted to is commendable. 
If you cared about me and what I've lost, you'd want to dredge this up! Don't you see-- there's a chance you can help me erase one of the worst days of my life, Jason! You can give me the greatest gift of all and help me figure out how to bring my son back! 
I'm tired of hearing about what our uniforms mean -- especially from someone who's pulled the bat symbol off! And it's not a uniform -- it's a shroud, damn it! A shroud that my son got impaled like a stuck pig in! 
Continue to point that gun at us... and I guarantee you will never walk again. 
Welcome back to Gotham, McKillen. 
I got myself pinched for a reason, my dimwitted friend. I suggest everyone disperse. I've been charged with escorting the lady from this peerless institution. 
Damian turned away from the dark path his mother put him on... made a choice just like this creature did to walk in the sun, no matter the cost. 
If you try to take Damian's body again I'm going to kill you and make sure you never come back. 
Cold, do you really think putting that against my head's--A GOOD IDEA?!'' 
...I want this to be a completely new start. We've been broken long enough. From here on out--good or bad--the truth rules. 
It's easier to live a long life when others are willing to lay down theirs for yours, isn't it? But I know damn well you can at least feel pain and I'd be happy to share some with you! 
About time you showed up. 
You don't beat death. You can postpone it -- hell -- we showed you might even cheat it. But make no mistake, Damian, you can never beat it. 
If I'm going to be honest with you, Damian, I'll need to be honest with myself. It's not just the upbringing that your mother forced on you that made you who you are... I'm also to blame. 
You try to murder my son -- and expect to live!? 
Listen to me. Something is growing in Gotham. And it's happening in the daytime. It has to do with kids like you, kids with abilities. The truth is, I need help. I need someone who knows this city, but sees it in his own way--a different kind of hero to help me. A daytime protector. 
Don't move. Or I'll hurt you more. 
I want you to be a global agent of chaos battling against criminal interests and threats to Wayne Enterprises. 
And one more thing: Keep Flamebird out of the Weeping Woman case until you know what you're dealing with. Murdered sidekicks tend to come back from the dead. As super-villains. 
Murder isn't a curse, Kate. It's a terrible crime. And a terrible justice must be served upon its perpetrators. 
Kate! Snap out of it! You're running out of time! 
Don't apologize, kid: I like it. And you're right. Power untempered by compassion is a dangerous thing. I think you've got potential after all, Beetle. Tell Kord I'll be watching. And tell him--to teach you how to throw a decent punch. 
This anti-vigilante sentiment seems to be gaining momentum... and to get to the root of this, I may need to switch tactics and give Batman a rest... 
One last fight. Everyone together. 
... All roads lead to Barbatos ... and now the world will sink ... into darkness ... 
I don't fear you, Slade...I pity you. Only your narcissism gives you the "moral" high ground. I pity your children. Your ex-wife. I pity anyone who's ever loved you. We're not here because of my obsession--but because of yours. You came to me. 
His life was a complete mystery to me. And it was so early in my career I didn't follow up. I'm betting this is a copycat, but not someone with a Gotham connection. Good news, Alfred. We're going to Europe after all. 
I miss him. Every second of every day. But I have to face that he's gone. And I have to honor his life's work. 
We may not completely like each other, but Bullock's a good cop. I trust him. And usually, I can trust him to be thorough. But I know he's missing something. Something covering the truth. 
He's home alone and you're in here getting drunk on his birthday. Buy a damn calendar. 
Astrid Arkham came close to doing some permanent damage all because of a lie. Another lost soul who thought she was a hero instead of a villain. 
Never thought I'd be perceived to be the good cop. 
Fear is the only language some people understand. Criminals are superstitious. Cowardly. 
These are Wayne children. They're my responsibility. My children I've failed them. 
Bodies adorning the tree...ritualistic...some form of torture...horrific... 
It's always the same... whether it's religion... politics... money... it's an excuse for bad people to do bad things. Hopefully that's all that is... and not a sign of something wicked this way comes. 
I don't need to punish you, Harvey... Canopy close. ...You've already got that job covered. 
This aberration is over, Jacob.  I promise you that. 
Jacob Kane needed an enemy to fight his war--so he made one out of a myth. 
I remember now. I remember all of them. They were all caught in the crossfire. None of them  were the intended targets of the attacks. I was. 
Zatanna, I've faced things the teenage boy you knew could never have imagined. Horrors beyond nightmare. Beyond comprehension. But the only thing that's ever threatened to tear me apart, from the inside out, is the knowledge that I could have saved somebody if I took just one more step. Whatever is brewing, the target is firmly planted on the people I care about most in the world. I've already lost one of them. Please Zatanna. I need to do this. 
Spoiler!  We need to talk.  It's important.  It's about--He's alive, Stephanie.  Tim's alive. 
Batgirl was right. And the Tim Drake I've known and trained for years would see that. Instead, all I hear in your voice is desperation. Fear. Echoes of Mr. Oz's prison. Echoes of that twisted future version of yourself. I never should have let you join back up so soon. I should have gotten you help. 
The Signal just went up. We'll have to table this conversation for another time. The future can wait a little longer. Send a message to Jim. Tell him I'm coming. Tell him everything's going to be all right. 
I know Gotham will never be perfect. I will never be perfect. But that doesn't mean I can't fight toward the light. 
It's clear our tourist in Gotham will use all of them to hurt me. That can't happen. I will uncover Karma's identity, and I will stop him. Until then, all of them stand down--and they will follow your lead, however you choose to lead them. 
I should have anticipated this. Too distracted. Too comfortable. The anger I have is just fear in disguise. And I'm afraid he's right. 
Your team is called the Outsiders. 
Hindsight has shown me... if Harvey does ever reemerge, Two-Face always has a way of coming back all too soon afterward. 
Kobra has another drug. A new creation from their labs, and in its own way even worse than anthrax. It's some sort of specific mind-controlling agent. And if we don't stop them from releasing it into the water... all of Gotham will become followers of Kobra. 
I want you all to think of this place like a carnival funhouse tonight... except the only monster in here with you... is me. 
And suddenly it all fits together... people in my life who made me Batman... are being unmade. 
Found out a long time ago... what makes me tick, Strange. 
Three people were murdered that night outside the Monarch Theater. But one was reborn. Baptized in his own blood. 
Hugh Marder, their president, a man I actually like, has been working feverishly to develop technology that'll aid in the development of cancer drugs. I trusted he was working on the technology he so enthusiastically put all his weight behind. But this... 
The quest for traveling faster than the speed of light. I get it. But why is it here? Was Marder testing it on himself? Trying to propel himself through space? 
Keep Batman busy so he doesn't interfere with the assassination of Bruce Wayne? Whoever's behind this, I guess the joke's on them. 
I want to take down Cobblepot right, and that requires patience and forethought. So no trouble tonight... but a whole lot of fireworks. 
You want to know where your wife is, Clayface? I'm here to show you. But the truth is going to hurt. It's going to burn. 
A few months ago, after my last trouble with the Joker, all these lunatics were allowed to congregate in Old Grant Park. I thought it was a very bad idea. For them. 
"Look into their smiles," Bullock insisted. And I do. And everything clicks into place. 
You know what ultimately brought down Al Capone, right? Tax evasion. You belong in Blackgate, Cobblepot. It doesn't matter how you get there. 
I can't have you transforming into a bat-creature while I already have another to contend with. 
Everyone outside of Arkham, everyone in Gotham, is under the influence of a mass delusion. Imagining themselves in some sort of perfect world. When, in fact, the opposite was the case. The warning signs were there. But I chose to ignore them. Right until it was almost too late. 
This is not Gotham. Gotham is not a happy place. Not a place of sunny skies, clean sidewalks, safe streets and friendly citizens. This Gotham is a lie. Scarecrow's lie. 
No doubt you can shovel it, Detective. But let me give you a friendly piece of advice... Push aside that ample gut of yours... and follow the evidence. 
I don't do this for kicks, Annette. I do it to make a difference. 
Whatever happened on this plane took eight hours. That means we potentially have eight hours too. 
A psychopath with a conscience. I'm sure some people would say we've got the same blood. 
You don't need a freak handing out masks to give you permission to change. You'be always had control over your life -- no mask is gonna change that. 
I know the asylum has several hidden points of escape, Doctor. Choose one and get there! Now! 
You must be him. Adrian Veidt. I've read all about you. 
Ignore your mentor. Do what you do best. Be you, Robin. 
I don't know what the hell you've done to my city or how the Crime Syndicate helped you -- but we finished them and now I'm going to finish you. 
People who get close to me get hurt. That's what happened with Nightwing. The Crime Syndicate exposed his true identity to the world. 
I don't like Green Lanterns, traditionally speaking.  Hal is a glory hound.  Unpredictable.  Guy is...an idiot. You...I can work with you. 
I was wrong, Quinn. And not just about the murder. The old Harley Quinn would never have risked imprisonment to comfort a mother. And her son. Maybe you have changed. 
Someone was being treated here. By Sanctuary. Along with a lot of other... heroes. And that someone killed Sanctuary. And a lot of other heroes. So it just... it means what we already know it means. What it always means... our hope for... redemption... is now just another hunt for vengeance. 
Learn from this, Booster... Follow your gut and make the team yours. And then make sure this never happens again. 
The world's afraid of us. It's necessary. 
You're no different from those in Arkham, Luthor. You don't have a colorful costume or carry a deck of cards. You don't wear your psychosis on your sleeve like they do... But that's what makes you more dangerous. You can hide among us. 
My name is Bruce Wayne. When I was ten, my parents were murdered in front of my eyes. I've spent my life training to fight the same kind of criminals that took their lives. But this is different. This isn't about me. This is bigger than I am. And it's bigger than you are. 
It's worse than you know, and we need help.  It's a job for Superman.  For you.  We need the impossible.  We need you to go to the center of the Earth. 
One more thing--as per our charter, I have the right to select our new interim chairman. I choose him. 
You were right. We all deserve that chance. A fresh start... even me. Everyone can be a hero. This team, this place, will give them that. 
Wonder Woman is missing. Aquaman isn't answering. Flash and GL are gone, and Rao has Superman. Just us. Us versus God. 
Frost once asked me what this place was. My answer?  The future.  It's why I started this team.  Batbatos, Tsaritsa...I knew the worst was coming.  People would doubt my image, doubt their icons.  They'd want to turn on each other.  I needed to send a message of hope...of fighting together. You were that message, and you surpassed my expectations.  You don't need me to unite people.  That's good.  Because the future still looms....  I have a Justice League case to close, personally.  One final mission...one world left to save. 
As much as I hate to admit it... Caitlin Snow proves there is value in Task Force X. I may have... midjudged your... Suicide Squad. There's room in the world for both of our teams. 
As I suspected, she's a willing partner. She wasn't coerced or forced into it. 
I've never got the chance to say 'thank you'... 
Everybody gets one break. Today is yours. 
Yes, father. I shall become a priest. 
You're doing good work out here. Even if the white isn't very subtle. 
Gotham City.  Do not be afraid.  This is a prerecorded message.  You know who I am.  As we speak, my team and I are doing everything we can to protect you.  But Gotham City is not safe.  To ensure that you are, follow the GCPD to a selected evacuation site.  Stay strong.  Stay calm.  Trust me, as you have before.  I promise each and every one of you.  This night will end.  And when it does...you will be there to meet the morning. 
Maybe... maybe it's better this way. That he should get a fresh start... without us. 
Dick. I didn't fall. I jumped. I jumped because I knew you'd catch me. 
No, Jason. He didn't make you. I never did either. You made you. 
No more jokes, Jason. No more excuses. No more Red Hood! 
I didn't ask you to be Robin because I wanted someone perfect. I wanted someone who can do their best. Who can learn from their mistakes. Someone who makes me a better person just by being with them. So tell me... is that you, Jason? 
     ''I'm going to Apokolips and bringing Robin back -- alive!'' 
Yes, Father. I shall become a bat. 
Betrayal and mutilation. The internal politics of the Suicide Squad. This place... it's like a mockery of Arkham. 
You're a father. And that means one thing... You don't... get to be a bad guy anymore. Be better. 
And that attitude is exactly why you're going. You're too young to be this angry. Any unexcused absences and you're fired. No more HQ. No more Robin. 
You two have a spat, and the world burns? How can you not be aware of the stakes of what you're doing? 
I don't want to be jealous of him. Of them. And most of them time, I'm not. Almost all the time, I'm not, Diana, that's the truth. But sometimes... times like this... I wonder what it would be like to have what he has. Family. Home. To live with nothing to hide. 
But there's a difference between you and me. Between you and everyone. We're who we are. And you're Superman. 
But there's a difference between you and me. Between you and everyone. We're who we are. And you're Superman. 
It seems on top of super-strength, flight and X-Ray vision... you've developed a new super-power. 
...You're the best of us. Serving by your side's been my honor. 
     'Hnn. A gun. Even if you're from another timeline... shame on you, Timoth-- 
...Because I love you, Damian. And you're right. I have failed. I failed you. 
I won't lose another Robin. You agree to work with me -- to do what I say when I say it -- to trust me like I'll come to trust you... then we have a deal. Partner. 
This whole Teen Titans project of yours has gone off the rails.  Straighten it out before I'm forced to. 
Robin... it's over. 
But a bat is a messenger from the underground. It tells you what to do, not what to become. What if I missed the message, Alfred? What if I missed it all? 
But... Batman isn't about me. He never was. He's about everyone else. You taught me that, Alfred. You. Batman is about Gotham... 
It all comes down to this. Everything. A thousand versions of myself, at war with me, all led by one creature. This is the final battlefield. I feel it. 
That may be. But you know who's a bigger joke than the worst Batman? The Batman he beats. Heh.' 
Nations die. Kings die. Everything has its time... 
My queen -- it appears that somebody has stolen the Silver Arm of Nuada... 
I died once, and I came back. I believe Elatha traded places -- switched bodies. Diana -- the King Elatha... is still alive. 
...What could be so fearsome? So terrifying that an entire nation would damn itself to an eternity of captivity? We have to hope, I suppose, that we never find out... 
The Immortal Men are real. What are we going to do about it? 
The most human man I know whose powers will always set him apart as alien, driven by those he couldn't save. A goddess of peace atone in a world of constant war. Forever cursed to lose an unwinnable battle. They're the best, most giving people I've ever known and they're both willing to die to keep your demon in check. That's your sacrifice. 
I'm warning you for the last time. Release my friends. 
Are you a lighning rod for conflict now? 
I brought the Kryptonite ring for you, in case you weren't what Huntress claimed. But I think Clark needs it more. 
What I am... was born from death. So we fight, David. We fight what's outside... it helps what's within. You're a hero. And you honor us all with your strength. 
Nothing new in a thirteen-year-old-boy pushing his father away with one hand... and reaching out to keep the relationship alive with the other... I should know. I did the same thing to Alfred back in the day. 
The very first file we programmed into 
We wear masks not to protect ourselves, but to protect the lives of others, our families, friends, and associates. We fight for you and this city because we hope one day we won't be needed at all. 
I'm not perfect, Ghost-Maker. This city is dangerous and I could always do better. But you don't understand Gotham or what it needs. 
Pictures. All of Alfred. I've been blind to how much Damian's suffering after his murder. Alfred was as much a father to him as I was... possibly even more. Maybe there is a chance for Damian to put the R on again... get my son... back! 
I have no interest in not caring about people. I have no interest in giving up the mission I started when I was eight years old. You're sick. There's a part of you that's broken and you're angry that it's not broken in me. 
Two families. Two friends. Two tragedies. Two young lives and many more destroyed. Two lifelong enemies. Too late to change a damn thing. 
Gotham's wealthy, or wealthier elite. Professionals. Highly educated. Almost none of the violence that's currently plaguing the city has landed at their front door. To them, it's a story. Something smaller than reality. Candlelight as opposed to a fire. 
It's clever, Oracle. It's a fear attack that doesn't need a toxin. The tension in this city is high enough that he can get people panicking in the streets with a straw man. But panic isn't going to be to be the purpose, and in of itself. What is Dr. Crane trying to accomplish with this? What is this trying to say? 
She feels it too. We don't just know each other. We've fought together before. And well. We don't remember, but our coordination is flawless. Are we partners? Colleagues? Friends? Lovers? 
I could see it in his eyes the moment we met. It was like looking in a mirror. Ever since his mother brought him to me... it was clear to me was going to be a handful. Calling him entitled would be an understatement. To the role of Robin. To taking life. And he never questioned that he'd one day be Batman. He's as strong as he is stubborn. And there is no doubt in my mind that Damian can take care of himself. 
Memories reset. But maybe feeling hold -- what? 
You're alive. In the here and now. I know this. Like magic -- with a curse --  you're alive. I don't need to be here again, in the past. I've learned my lessons. The guilt doesn't help me. It doesn't have a hold on me anymore. You're alive, Jason.  And intend to keep it that way. 
SEE IT! SEE THE LIGHT NOW!  
From your birth into this world, fate has been pitiless to you. You were born to a world of suffering. Though you're capable of almost any evil, Bane. You'd never damn another innocent to a destiny like your own. 
Each of these Bruce Waynes lived a different life. The last one was married, had ...
Scarecrow was a monster -- showing me my fears! But I already knew my fears! I consider them every night as I do the job! But 
Peacekeeper-01 is going to hurt people. The Magistrate is going to overstep in order to prove they haven't lost control. But the real danger right now is the people of Gotham City. They have been pushed to the brink, scared out of their minds. They are capable of anything right now. And Scarecrow is here, ready to push them over the brink. 
I watched my parents die in that alley. I wasn't going to let that happen to my son. 
If Bruce Wayne can't prevent another Arkham Asylum from rising... maybe the Batman can. 
When you asked help for Warworld, I said no. But when I needed you, practically the next day, you didn't hesitate. And you were right. Your team came through. 
The human capacity of for good is incredibly powerful. I believe when you take away the politicians, and the media, and the corporations, and it's just people together, they can overcome their fears. They can overcome anything. 
You spent years focused on a 
It terrifies you. Some of the other villains have built new lives for themselves and moved on from villainy. Some of them doubled down and changed their methods. But you have never changed, and now you tried the biggest attack you ever dared on the city and it failed. What could you do? The samething again but bigger? 
I'm not used to Gotham celebrating... me. 
You don't have to try to make me happy, Tim. I am happy, because you're my son. 
It's too dark. 
Is there a future between the mayor and the vigilante who was once his sworn enemy? Time will tell. 
Spend enough time in pain and it becomes comfortable to you. It becomes the home the world has built for you. And the tomb in which we bury ourselves. In some way, we're all orphans. Our whole lives spent in darkness. When we step into the light, we do so scared and alone. The sum of all the tragedies that have broken us. But it is from those pieces that we build ourselves -- we are both the darkness that forged us, and our will to step into the light. 
I am going away, Doctor... to think bigger. 
You always say that these rituals reverberate. Maybe someone was paying attention to the patterns over time. 
Badhnisia doesn't need its own Batman. It needs you. 
You did an outstanding job. If it's still something you were concerned about. In my eyes you've earned your place here. 
We've been tracking you since you left Gotham City, Ivy. I have no idea what you're doing in Metropolis but trust me, you're out of your league here. 
Deathstroke is one of the greatest assassin in the world. If he wants to kill you, chances are he will. But he didn't kill her. He missed on purpose. 
Reviver. 
You are the most powerful being on this planet. You need to start acting like it. 
Because, in that moment, when I stared into the dark... I saw something that scared me... I saw myself. 
What's come between us goes beyond that. 
Sometimes you have to stop, not to give up... just to get your bearings. 
That's not 
The goal was to run out the clock. 
Superman wanted you kept at the Hall. Allowed more free rein. He thinks the best of people. He grew up on a farm. 
He wouldn't understand. None of them would. The lengths I've gone to. I've softened. Surrounded myself with children. But in my early days, God help me, in my early days... I went too far. 
Outsiders, I'm requesting the fifth chair. The mission... find Elaine Thomas, bring justice to whoever took her away from her family... and no one stops until she's home safe. 
But I didn't see she was just a little bird flying blind... without a perch to return to. 
There's a power vacuum in Gotham and someone 
You have time. Time to be yourself. Time to become what you want to be. Use it. 
I am Batman, pure and simple, boy. The Batman of Zur-En-Arrh. Your Batman has called on me... to save everyone. 
Batman's not disappointed in you, Signal. 
We can recruit the citizens of Gotham City into a network of eyes and ears to help us. Like a neighborhood watch of sorts, backed by Bat-Tech. We could call it... 
Ra's al Ghul will never have it. 
Do you what I see? A danger. A threat... 
Imagine losing your parents twice in one day. 
In times of war, solidarity brings safety. 
Good strategies wins wars. Good optics wins mind. 
The Black Mercy. 
But God help me... if I designed it... then he should be worried about saving himself. 
Do you believe in yourself? 
You deserve more than being an extension of my creation. I know you won't be an Orphan forever. You might not be in Gotham forever. But whatever you become, you have more than my trust, Cassandra. You have my faith. 
I'm Batman. At night. 
Batman always wins, Jimphony, remember that. 
Years ago, Superman and I defeated him by the skin of our teeth. We buried him here. 
He's created a nightmare scenario: a Gotham where around every corner is a Joe Chill. Every alley is a Crime Alley. 
Your midnight ride's come to an end, Holman. 
Maybe you don't always need to chase down the bad guys to beat them up. Just saying. 
What kind of monster am I? 
I can't have the cops chasing Bruce Wayne for 
My father once said that the real monsters of this world are men without reason. 
Zatanna, trust me... no matter how you shaped this world, it would never be enough time. 
He's the most arrogant man I've ever met in my life. And considering I know Lex Luthor and Hal Jordan, that's saying something. 
Punchline. I will hurt you. I am not fun to play with. If the Joker made it look fun, he lied to you. 
Your family needs you. 
I knew you'd be back. 
No matter how old and tired I am... I'll always be here. 
I was supposed to find you. Everything I am. I'm supposed to save people. Father, I can't save you. 
To them I'll no longer be a man... I will be fear incarnate. 
Did you think I'd come unprepared, Karlo?! 
This thing is designed to defeat Batman. But it doesn't stand a chance... against Batman and Robin. 
The toxin didn't work on me because I went to the Fear Factory to conquer my biggest fear, so nothing else fazed me... 
You know you've never made a bad call with the projector. Ever. 
You and I are some of the last ones who really don't want to be killers. In a world like this, that means something. 
Embracing Magic fully is impossible for me. It's a matter of submission-- and I don't know how to submit. 
But to answer your question before you go. "Where do you begin...?" In the shadow places, at the most desperate hours, where the glorious are loath to tread. So people may yet turn to the sky, and draw hope even from the Darkest Knight. 
Wait. No... it's 
The ends don't justify the means. Not in my city. 
You "oughta" make the most of your time with your furry friends there. You won't be seeing each other for a while. 
His whole planet was destroyed. He's the last of a holocaust. He grew up in the dirt. Finding out slowly how different he was. A stranger discovering every day how strange he was. He has the power to tear the world apart. And he could. With a pinkie. It's not his world. We're not his people. We should be ants to him. Imagine that. Always being on the outside. The pain that would come from always being on the outside. And yet, he took that pain and became the symbol of hope. 
Alfred would have said that you saved me. Before you, every hit was a little harder. I know what Batman could have turned into without you. I know what could have consumed me if you weren't in my life. 
I'm alone so often I forget why I do this. I forget that every person I save is a future, a life, a family. It's my job to be alone... so people like them don't have to be. So here's to Jack and Molly... thank you for reminding me why I do this. I wish you the best. 

"Find me"? 
Any mystery is solvable if you put in the work. 
Tell me, Talia... tell me what history I need to know. 
All these experiments, this terror? To what? See through another madman's eyes again? 
Batman wins. 
     ' 
Whatever the 
Nothing should be able to get through these firewalls... 
Look at what she did. Imagine what 
She's stronger than she looks, faster, too. Maybe she knows her way around a fight. But she doesn't know Gotham. She's headed for a dead end. No escape for her now. No place to... hide? And just like that, she's gone. Whoever she is. The unidentified woman. The Identity-stealing muderess. Current location... unknown. Distinguishing features... unknown. Name... unknown. 
I'm Batman. Everyone will think I did it. 
Damn it, Diana... always there when I need you the most. Even in my dreams. 
I don't die. Ask your father. If you've got a Ouija Board handy. 
You think this changes anything? You think I need their approval? I've been hounded and hunted before. It hasn't stopped me. 
We've turned his own troops against him! 
Bats are cool. 
The way I saw you two operate out there yesterday... the way you handle fear. It made me think. 
I've been mapping your Metropolis flight paths for months. The majority of them begin or end at either the Planet offices or a specific apartment building on Clinton Avenue. Cross-referencing that data with the Planet's personnel files, Clark Kent is Superman's most likely disguise. 
You want my mind? You'll have to do better than that. 
I'm not a monster, Joseph. I'm your 
I'll fight you all if I have to. The mission has been tainted: We stop crime. Because we're Batman. 
Zur-En-Arrh created Failsafe to one day stop me. But he didn't need to... I was already creating my failsafe. Them. My family. 
How did you do it, Alfred...? 
Seems like the Island creates a sort of... Snapshot of those who escape. 
You belong here. 
Mother... father... I've lost our Manor... I let it be take by another. I shared our home with others. I shared our wealth with good people-- and now it's gone. But I won't lose them! My best soldiers... they can't be bought. 
He robs some and just kills others. Makes announcements for a few. Then murders others randomly. Why? 
Trust, Canary. Didn't you mention it? 
If something interfered with Ahl's arrival? Find it. If the God of Superheroes has yet to visit this plane? Be ready. 
You didn't even make it past first period. 
Joker. No more victims. Tonight... I'm going to kill you. 
If things continue to escalate, I'll have no choice but to get involved. 
I am your shadow, Gotham. I will always walk with you. 
I'm more than Batman. Which is why you'll never beat me. 
I was expecting something less well-intentioned. And less hopeless, frankly. 
I'll keep an eye on 
There's one problem with this plan, Zur. You're not Batman. I am. 
There are much scarier things than me out there. 
This is a job for Supermen! 
There's something that connects you to Xabaras and you don't want to tell me. 
It's hard for people to see the truth when they're holding torches and pitchforks in front of their faces. 
Gotham doesn't care what you want, Bruce. 
I am Batman. I will stand again. 
He called himself... the Penguin. 
She'll do the right thing-- the sane thing-- and move on with her life. I wish I had that option. 
I will become consequence. 
Names. Or pavement. 
I wish they'd met their grandson. 
When the time comes... I will need your Eternal Winter. 
You told me once that you were turning me into a storm... but you were wrong. A storm isn't one thing. It's an idea, made up of parts working together. You thought you were fighting me. But you lost today because you fought all of us. We're the storm. And we'll never die out. 
I'm not an idol. I'm not a smiling superhero. I'm just a man. A man trying his level best, every night, to prevent trauma and protect the helpless. It's not a colorful job anymore. It's not silly or funny. But it means everything to me. 
Come, let us remind Gotham... in this city, there are still those of us that keep the dark. 
Walk straight and you'll be fine. 
Waller would never go this route-- unless she thinks she's already won. 
All we can hope is that our kids take after the best part of us. 
I miss Gotham. 
Stay on the island. 
In this town, the shadows will all do their part. 
Selina, we have to save the world. 
Human Bomb. Enlist, obviously. 
Phantom Lady? Enlist. 
You know how to get everyone's power back. 
The Mother Box works with thought, but... I couldn't get it to respond. I thought of your bunker, my cave... nothing. And then it just washed over meA feeling. A feeling of the last time I was happy. 
Addison and Aiden Cobblepot. As greedy as your father was, I see. 
Kobra. They're a cult, as you say... but they're not the organization that they were. They're hurting. And like the snake they take their name from -- hurting, feeling threatened... that makes Kobra all the more dangerous. 
Are all the Avatars of War as powerful as you? 
All we have is now. 
I am the boy who dreamed for a moment of standing in the Sun. 
You're a metahuman hero, forged in the shadows, who can crack the codes of daytime. You're a gift to this city. 
Addison and Aiden Cobblepot. As greedy as your father was, I see. 
Gotham is my home. And I'm trying to make it better. But my greatest fear... is that it just won't let me. 
He's a soldier, not some mascot like the others. If he is going to be in the company of demigods, he will need to know how to defeat them. Just in case. 
Every time I come to England it's raining and someone's dead. 
When I'm wearing the mask, I'm me. Follow my lead. Let your true self be your disguise. 
Could I have saved their lives? 
Self-doubt can be a terrible thing. 
You'd point a gun at me? 
It's youthful arrogance. It's paranoia. It's... it's my fault, Arthur. My subconscious created a failsafe to stop me if I ever went too far. If Batman ever willingly took a life. He knows my plans, he knows my moves.  He's faster, stronger than I am. All by design. 
Killing him won't bring your family back. 
How can I support this, if I'm the only one who benefits? 
Riddler. I'm coming for you. 
You're exposed, 
You have a father to talk to! I didn't. 
I have a rematch waiting for me, with one of the best fighters in the world. 
You love the cold, Victor. Even if you did bring her back, you'd end up destroying her. Because you love an idea, Victor. An obsession. And that I do understand. 
You small, small man. 
That could be a problem. 
Both of us are human, Jim. Flawed. There's no way around that. All we can try to do... is to be good men. 
He's a professional killer. Unlike any other. Perhaps the best. Bred, trained to murder, then disappear. He'll have thought of everything, covered everything. 
His whole planet was destroyed. He's the last of a holocaust. He grew up in the dirt. Finding out slowly how different he was. A stranger discovering every day how strange he was. He has the power to tear the world apart. And he could. With a pinkie. It's not his world. We're not his people. We should be ants to him. Imagine that. Always being on the outside. The pain that would come from always being on the outside. And yet, he took that pain and became the symbol of hope. 
For a very long time, as members have moved in and out of this team, you have been the eternal constant. Our North Star of strategies and values. J'onn, in many ways, you are the Justice League. And that is why we'll solve this together. 
You're my son. And I would never, ever leave you in a place like this. 
You're good as Robin. 
Hush has returned. 
